tools: add debugging documentation (#115)
bisdn/bisdn.github.io: tools/debugging.md

---
title: debugging
parent: Tools
---

# Debugging

For debug purposes, refer to this page for instructions in enabling the debug options in BISDN Linux.

## Debug instructions

> First check that all necessary services are up and running, with the following command. To ensure proper operation of BISDN Linux, baseboxd, ofdpa and ofagent must be running.

Reviewer: Just for us stupid people so it's easy to see the names of the services. Also added ofdpa-grpc, although it very rarely is the issue for breaking anything.

To debug the status on the ports, check `onlpdump -S` to get the state on the port. Similar output can be seen below. If the port information does not correspond to the physical connections, debug the physical connection by adding another cable or try another module, if available.

```
Port  Type            Media   Status  Len    Vendor            Model             S/N
----  --------------  ------  ------  -----  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------
48  NONE
...
51  1GBASE-CX       Copper          1m            SFP-10G-DAC     
```

When trying to configure a feature, please remember to verify if the version you are checking does support the feature. Additionally, is a list of feature limitations [here](https://docs.bisdn.de/limitations.html).

## Debug files

### baseboxd debug files

baseboxd is packaged with the following configuration file `/etc/default/baseboxd`, visible below.

```
### Configuration options for baseboxd
#
# Enable multicast support:
# FLAGS_multicast=true
#
# Listening port:
# FLAGS_port=6653
#
# gRPC listening port:
# FLAGS_ofdpa_grpc_port=50051

### glog
#
# log to stderr by default:
GLOG_logtostderr=1

# verbose log level:
# GLOG_v=0
```

> The relevant options for enabling debug logs in baseboxd is the `GLOG_v=0` value. By increasing the value in this configuration option, more detailed debug information will be outputted.

Reviewer: What are the valid values? i.e. i=[0..N] where N is the largest integer

Finer grained control of logging can be done by replacing the `GLOG_v=` configuration. When passing the baseboxd module names to `GLOG_vmodule`, which correspond to the class names, specific logging for that component will be activated with the specified logging level. The following command exemplifies how to configure this value.

```
GLOG_vmodule=<module name>=<log level>
For example, setting logging to the main loop, the layer 3 and the controller classes,

> GLOG_vmodule=cnetlink=1,nl_l3=3,controller=2 

Reviewer: Nice example!

---
title: debugging
parent: Tools
---

# Debugging

For debug purposes, refer to this page for instructions on enabling the debug options in BISDN Linux.

## Debug instructions

> To ensure proper operation of BISDN Linux, the service ``baseboxd``, ``ofdpa``,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure proper operation of BISDN Linux, the services ``baseboxd``, ``ofdpa``,
```

``ofdpa-grpc`` and ``ofagent`` must be running.
First check that these necessary services are up and running with the following
command.

```
systemctl status <service>
```

Before diving deeper into the debugging process, you should verify your network
configuration. Make sure that the network configuration files are read and
applied correctly, by checking the status and logs of services that you are
using to apply network configuration. In most cases this will be
``systemd-networkd``, and maybe ``frr``.

To follow the logs from the service, use the following command.

```
journalctl -u <service>
```
Check `man journalctl` for more information on the arguments.

When trying to configure a feature, please remember to verify if the version
and plaform being tested does support the feature. Make sure to check the list
of known [limitations](https://docs.bisdn.de/limitations.html).

> To ensure that the link state itself is as expected, use `onlpdump -S` to get the state of all port (sample output below). If the port state and SFP information (not applicable to patch cables) does not correspond to the physical connections, debug the physical connection by adding another cable or try another module, if available.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure that the link state itself is as expected, use `onlpdump -S` to get the state of all ports (sample output below). If the port state and SFP information (not applicable to patch cables) does not correspond to the physical connections, debug the physical connection by adding another cable or try another module, if available.
```

----  --------------  ------  ------  -----  ----------------  ----------------  ----------------
48  NONE
...
51  1GBASE-CX       Copper          1m            SFP-10G-DAC
```

## Debug files

### baseboxd debug files

baseboxd is packaged with the following configuration file `/etc/default/baseboxd`, visible below.

```
### Configuration options for baseboxd
#
# Enable multicast support:
# FLAGS_multicast=true
#
# Listening port:
# FLAGS_port=6653
#
# gRPC listening port:
# FLAGS_ofdpa_grpc_port=50051

### glog
#
# log to stderr by default:
GLOG_logtostderr=1

# verbose log level:
# GLOG_v=0
```

The relevant options for enabling debug logs in baseboxd is the `GLOG_v=0` value. By increasing the value in this configuration option, more detailed debug information will be outputted. The accepted values are `GLOG_v=[1..5]`.

When passing the baseboxd module names to `GLOG_vmodule`, which correspond to the class names, specific logging for that component will be activated with the specified logging level. The following command exemplifies how to configure this value.

```
GLOG_vmodule=<module name>=<log level>

> For example, setting logging to the main loop, the layer 3 and the controller classes,

Reviewer 3: you can omit the the "For example...." here and describe above what exactly you are setting (including what the numbers chosen here mean)

GLOG_vmodule=cnetlink=1,nl_l3=3,controller=2
```

### ofdpa debug files

> ofdpa is packaged with the configuration file `/etc/default/ofdpa`, visible below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ofdpa ships with the default configuration file `/etc/default/ofdpa` shown below.
```

```
### Configuration options for ofdpa
#
# Set the component for debugging (can be added multiple times),
# valid components are:
#        1 = API
#        2 = Mapping
#        3 = RPC
#        4 = OFDB
#        5 = Datapath
#        6 = G8131
#        7 = Y1731
# e.g. (API and Mapping):
# -c 1 -c 2
#
# debug level 0..4 (all components)
# -d 2
#
# example:
# OPTIONS="-c 1 -c 2 -d 2"
OPTIONS=""
```

> To activate the logging components inside ofdpa pass the `-c <component>` flag with the component, and to set the level for all components `-d <level>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To activate the logging for ofdpa, pass the component identifier (the numbers show in the default configuration file), together with the debug level you need to the `OPTIONS` key (e.g. `OPTIONS="-c 1 -c 5 -d 4"` to enable the maximum verbosity for the "API" and "DATAPATH" components).
```

### ofagent debug files

> ofagent is packaged with the configuration file `/etc/default/ofagent`, visible below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
ofagent ships with the default configuration file `/etc/default/ofagent` shown below.
```

```
### Configuration options for ofagent
#
# set the dpid
# -i 1
#
# connect to IP:PORT
# -t 10.10.10.10:6653
#
# agent level debugging 0..2
# -a 2
#
# insert all options here:
OPTIONS="-t 127.0.0.1:6653 -m"
```

> Logging in ofagent can be controlled with the `-a <log level>` flag.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logging in ofagent can be enabled by amending the `OPTIONS` key (please do not overwrite the default settings) with the `-a <log level>` flag (e.g. `OPTIONS="-t 127.0.0.1:6653 -m -a 2"` for maximum verbosity).
```
